FDR had a dream of an America where people cared for each other, where all people worked together for a common purpose which was the American dream. It was a dream that drove Western societies for many decades and it was a dream that Ronald Reagan shattered and replaced with his own version of it. The role of government in society, the character of political discussions and the way that we think about right and wrong and perceive ourselves in relation to the world around us, were captured by the culture of mass deregulation, by the dictatorship of the individual and by the mantra that "greed is good." look we didn't talk about economics even though all three other teams did in this debate. I'm going to explain to you why that was the winning decision. Before I do, I want to clear up to comparative points. The first one into the world that we are talking about was a response to the exact kind of Great Depression mass deregulation that they're talking about. The world that we're talking about was a world with a great deal of investment in the, in economies which was why inequality was at its lowest, no, thank you, was at its lowest in the last 200 years and that kind of thing. The second point that I want to make, is that generally both Opp teams have characterized our side as mass regulation. In fact, they're the extreme side. We don't have to adopt the most draconian worst version of regulation in order to get the benefits that we're talking about. Particularly, for Dan and my extension, this is because it's to do with the character of the way in which we make decisions politically and how we perceive economies in the world to function. So, right, if you value mass deregulation and that kinds of thing, you're intending to value in individualism and all of those other kinds of things. No, thank you. You don't need absolute regulation to have discussion and culture change in the way that we describe. So, a lot of their harms, which I'll talk about in a minute, which are dependent on having the most draconian kinds of regulation or the most severe version of this policy, fall out of the debate because of their failure to adequately shade and characterize and take us on our best. So, firstly, to do with this extension, right. Our contention is that when the economy's most important industry and your political structures which are causing these policies to be in place, are debating and discussing and adopting policies which carry a paradigm of individualism, which say that there is no such thing as our society, that government's job is to get out of the way, that the way, that the most important thing for you to do is to consume as much as possible and to have as much as possible, that that shapes the way that we think and disconnects us from each other. Both, because of the impact of that discussion itself and the policies that that results in. So, for example, the inequality that we said that this results in, separates people from each other, who before, would have lived together or felt some kind of community with each other. The resentment and the complete difference of lifestyle means that those people are unable to connect with each other in a way that they were before. That changes the individual behaviors of all of us, it changes how likely we are to look after each other and look after the people who are in need of help, it changes the kinds of policies that our governments are going to implement. Less things like social housing, less things like public investment, less looking after the poor because the point, because that would be a government overreach which contravenes the kind of philosophy of government that they endorse. And it changes how all of us feel because all of us are existing and surrounded by rhetoric that bombards us with individualism and divides us from the people around us, and makes us think that we should only look out for ourselves and that we are the most important people. I think that like, so, there's all of those impacts and then there's the kind of secondary level and, and, you know. Like I think you have to think about so much of the rhetoric that's coming in the United States at the moment. So, many of those reactionary kinds of talk are some kind of longing for the past. As you know, some people trying to reclaim something. Our contention is that at least to some extent, those people are trying to reclaim a moment when they all felt like they were in the same country and that country was America or Britain or wherever it is, and that they have lost that, damages the political and cultural structures of our society severely. We got no response to this. And I, like I knew they would get arrogant about this. Any Irish team, we've spoken against a team from that university, knows that they would get arrogant about this. [clapping] But I don't mind because we're going to be in a Euros final and they are not. [laughter] Now, on to the weighing portion of the speech. Firstly, weighing this against the economic analysis of Opening Government and Opening Opposition. Because I think that Opening Government do a good job of showing you how there will be economic harms and I think there are probably some economic harms on both sides of the house and so on. But our extension explains how economic harms translate into impacts for people. Because of our extension, you can understand why the economic harm is severe, because when your government and society aren't there to look out for you when things go badly for you, that's when you're going to face the kind of poverty and the kind of situation that they describe.But also, because this is the case regardless, the economy will probably be sometimes good and sometimes bad. Basically, every economy of all, ever, except from medieval Japan, was sometimes good and sometimes bad. In both of those situations, people are unhappy, people are poor, people are starving because of our extension, far more than they are on their side of the house. So, we make their impacts actually accrue or make them meaningful but also, we undercut them by taking it in a new direction and having new impacts to our Opening Government and Opening Opposition to [INAUDIBLE [00:53:15]. I'll take Closing.No, but the point, the point of it... No, no, no. The point of it is that sometimes people have more money and sometimes people have less money on both sides of the house. Why does having less money make you feel sa, right. Because if you don't have a home but you have all kinds of people to look after you and have you stay in their homes until you get on your feet again, then that doesn't matter as much. If you don't have a home and the government is providing social housing until you are able to get a home for yourself, that doesn't matter as much. But if you don't have a home and don't have money and you live in a society but isn't willing to provide those things for you, and people aren't connected to each other and people aren't looking after you and you feel completely politically disenfranchised, that's significantly worse. Dealing with their extension specifically. Two things. First of all, they said, oh, this Closing Opposition, "Oh, who knows how Snapchat make money?" I mean, I do, that they make money from ads. But secondly, [laughter] a lot of these, like a, a lot of these companies are actually quite risky. So, trigger, Twitter, one, runs at a loss and are, therefore, they don't make sense to give loans to. So, probably this is gonna be fine, [INAUDIBLE [00:54:22] those industries would survive and make us money. The other thing that they said, and again, I mean, you know, Asif [Phonetic] undercuts this so I'm, I'm just, you know, doing this as kind of a formality, but the only thing that they said was that when there are more banks and more competitors in the economy [INAUDIBLE [00:54:36] I think that actually, I mean first of all, economies can still be big and international on our side of the house, they were in the 50s. But I think that what they do is they make institutions far more interdependent upon each other, [clapping] because all of these institutions need each other in order to make more money, which is exactly the kind of thing that we're regulating against and that most regulators would regulate against. So, when a crash happens on their side of the house, it brings down so many more people because of that interdependence than it does on our side of the house. But most importantly, it makes us all feel alone and poor and divided. We're proud to propose.