1
For those of you who know her
Amy Williamson and I
we run the social media wing of Oxstrap
 which is one of the journals that does macroeconomic policy in Oxford. And one of the things we do is tweet articles on a regular basis. Check it out. But one of the things we've both noticed is that there is a stunning macroeconomic consensus among people who claim we have simply not learned the lessons of the times of the Great Depression
and that the era we now live in
is repeating those mistakes and has done so to the detriment of literally
millions of families around the world. So
the alternative we stand for is a return to the post Great Depression realization that we do need things like the separation of investments
wings of banks and savings wings
things like the Glass-Steagall Act
things like the limitations on product
the types of products that the financial sector can use
things like the burden of proof being placed on the new instrument to prove its validity and safety than on regulators who are often undermanned and stretched to prove that these things are not dangerous. The return to a time of transparency of ownership and to a time of greater regulation overall. Gonna do a few things. First
I'll explain quickly the effects of this massive regulation in the past as a retrospective debate. Second of all
I'll tell you why the spectrum of loans created on net were harmful. Number three
I'll do the trade-offs for you in this debate and why economically we should not have taken that deal and last of all
a quick suggestion on why mass deregulation that is harmful feeds itself. No
thank you.Yeah
go ahead.As I'm saying
I think the alternative economy is
is filled with more restrictions on capital
perhaps it is a bit slower but I suspect it also has less horrifying laws. Number one
effects of mass deregulation. I wanna be quick here. It looks like things like incompetent and unaccountable credit ratings over large tranches of loans that created the subprime mortgage crisis. It looks like things like loans
both internationally and domestically being bundled together under the illusion that diversity creates safety but in reality
not recognizing that bundling together very similar loans means that you are pooling risk. You're making it more likely that risk
that things go wrong and that then hurts the economy en mass. Or things like products which are simply so complex that even to this day
regulators are still trying to trace the full economic effects in terms of financial institutions around the world. All of these things and obviously
I can't tell you all of them
created a huge amount of structural weakness and instability and that created a cycle. I will briefly describe this cycle because it has been documented in many economists’ articles. When individuals lose confidence in the ability of certain institutions to pay back
these institutions either default or they call in their loans on
on
on sort of the
the lenders end. This often creates things like contagion in the financial sector as confidence
a lack of confidence rather spreads across the entire sector. Lots of loans are called back in
there is a drying up of capital for companies who need operate on the basis of lending
no
thank you
or that it dries up. It means companies shut down. It's a threat to an economy rather than just the financial sector. So
it looks like things like foreclosures
like shutting down of factories
defaulting on debt
individuals losing their jobs
being stuck in credit card or mortgage debt etc. Etc. Etc. It makes things terrible for people. And look
even if you don't buy all this logic
as an average reasonable person you have lived through this. You have lived through the last 8 - 10 years of an experience that has taken away
in terms of not just
maybe not for yourself
but your families and friends
the very things which made up the basis of a stable middle-class life. So
now
they're gonna say that these harms were worth it because on net loans were made and those loans are necessary to lubricate a global economy. But I wanna walk you through the spectrum of loans that were most commonly made. There are three types. The first are very unproductive gambles
they don't actually create real value in the economy. These are things like options or futures or like shorting certain shares that get
that extremely rich individuals can use to make gambles and bets on
on the likely prospects of an economy in the next 2 - 10 years depending on how risky you wanna be. But note
none of this actually increases capital in the economy. The vast majority of these investments don't increase value in any meaningful sense other than the fact that it provides an opportunity for people who are already wealthy
to take that wealth and increase that wealth further. Second of all
they propped up bubbles. They looked at investments which looked like they could increase forever like houses and said
"I will buy one today so that in the future that
that price will go up and I can sell it and turn it for a higher amount of profit." But of course
lots of these things were not responsive to actual market supply and demand factors. That's why when they realized no one was actually buying these houses
the prices crashed and there was no clear necessity to
you know
make loans for these houses in the first place. Now
the third class
and I suspect this is the minority are the legitimate loans. Things like with college students and so on and so forth. But note
these individuals were fucked over badly because they took loans from similar institutions or connected institutions
to institutions that were making loans with the first and second category. So
even if there were individuals who got these legitimate loans
that supply of credit got taken away when the financial crisis happened. You might have been midway from paying your legit mortgage or your legit student degree and paying off that student debt
when suddenly
the economy crashed and you couldn't find a job. So
to even to the extent there was some good done
a lot of that was undone when the large-scale crisis occurred. Let's move on to the tradeoffs. I wanna be very explicit about four observations here. The first
is that the gains of such growth were localized to capital owners and to CEOs were in the best position to take these risks. It's about people got away with large bonuses of bailouts because they could depend on governments to say
"The economy is so important
we will save your jobs because that's for the greater good." These gains were concentrated amongst a select and lucky few. On a moral basis
it's just not clear to me why we should value these gains. Who took the losses? The losses were taken by millions of people across swathes of the Midwest
not just in America but in parts of Europe as well. These were communities who already didn't have that much
were offered what they thought was a lifeline
but in reality
was a rope that had no tether at the end of it. It was about families losing their savings when banks shut down or like losing the entire jobs. No
thank you
and the prospect of sending their kid to college when the economy tanked. They did not get to keep the homes
no
thank you
they did not get to keep the college degrees or put that to good use when the economy had no jobs for them to go to. The point here is this
there might be gains and it might look good on paper
but unless those gains go to a large number or to the most needy
there is no reason to value those things. No. The second observation I have is on public debt. In prosperous times
like in the 80s and 90s or even the early 2000s
there was very little saving done by governments. No
thank you
and as a result
when
when it came to things like bearing the
the fiscal cost of a bailout or of increasing welfare programs when the crisis hit
they simply were not able to take that cost going forward. Third of all
note
all of the economic growth in the West
it's
it's unclear that
that growth was driven by the financial sector itself. It was very often
correspondent with things. Like the rise and opening of China as a market to sell to. Or with the .com bubble which
which was the technological development and a step forward. Or things like the end of the Cold War which had a significant savings
you know
benefit
because we no longer had to spend so much on the military. The point here is that there were lots of other real economic factors other than the financial sector that explains the reason why we had these spurts of growth. This Opposition needs to tell us concretely why an increased and absolutely ludicrous amount of capital was the only way to get these spurts of growth. Last of all
note
this also weakened the West as a whole. Arguably led to things like the rise of xenophobia because individuals
having lost the prospect of a middle-class livelihood and a middle-class future
often turn against individuals who are seen as foreign. If you just think about it
lots of the xenophobia that occurred
occurred after like sort of bad times in the economy basically. When times are good there is very little hatred and there's very little desire to exclude foreigners to the extent that we created
arguably the single financial and economic
largest financial and economic crisis of our generation. I think we are somewhat responsible for the hatred and the populism that has occurred. For these reasons
proud to [INAUDIBLE [00:07:22]
