1
We live in an unprecedented age of peace
an unrece
an unprecedented age of cooperation and international trade and technologies like the internet bringing us together that we contend are much less likely if we buy the proposition case. So
three things in this summary. Firstly
the culture stuff
the responses to Closing Gov. Secondly
the specific economic comparative
what do we get and not get depending on how much regulation we have. Thirdly
why more money causes more peace. So
firstly
to Closing Gov. Now
the first comment I would have is pretty bold for the Irish
a country who was saved by global capitalism in 2008 coming in to give him loans  that would have been regulated out by their side of the house
to say that capitalism has destroyed them. But more specifically
let us [INAUDIBLE [00:56:52] their extension
our biggest problem here is that we've been given the really clear comparative as to what it is that this means that is substantially different from just generally the American Dream. The idea of American exceptionalism
the idea of isolationism that Kate pointed out and received no response to. They said FDR had awful rhetoric
or like
no
sorry
FDR had a good record but it's pretty much word-for-word the exact same thing that Trump says albeit with one or two more colorful pieces of language. It's deeply unclear what it is that changes on their side of the house. They said
"Now
we'll have an incentive to give loans to help the good of the people." I mean
what! That's just not true. It was true in the 30s
that the only reason why you gave loans to people is because you thought you could make money back from them eventually. So
it's very unclear what significantly changes. He says that people don't care about the poor anymore. Well
no
they do because crucially
we give them an incentive to make the poor a market
because their regulated out under your side of the house because they're too risky to lend to.Under our side of house when that barrier is lower
you can lend money to them which means they then go and buy things with that money. People set up goods and services to sell things to those people.Crucially
deregulation creates markets out of people who just don't have very much money
both in the USA
which is where they like to talk about
but also in the rest of the world. So
that is incredibly important. And you know
our general content therefore
is even if we believe CG
that this has resulted in a in
you know
we would have an increased desire for social housing or whatever
that's meaningless if we don't have the money to actually build the houses in the first place. So
when they say
"We don't know whether they'll be more or less money on either side of the house
 that seems an odd claim to make given that the other three teams have been arguing about why specifically there might be more or less money on either side of house.So
what is the specific comparative? Point two
firstly
we say there's a
this general reduction in regulation leads to
you know
fewer products
smaller economies
crucially
less interjectors. They say that we are the parodical  case where we have no regulation. I mean
no. To the extent that you are not going to regulate absolutely everything out
we're equally not going to regulate absolutely nothing. Crucially
our mechanism of boom and bust is self-correcting because in the specific instances the OG identified if this was a thing that needed to be regulated
when we had the financial crash the instant response wasn't
"Regulate everything." It was
"Regulate the very specific things that caused us problems in the first place." So
our method is actually self-correcting in the most damaging of cases. Boom and bust is an iterative process by which we get the best possible regulations. But specifically
on crashes. I mean
fine. We're just gonna say that this is a necessary part of the economics cycle
it's kind of fine and we don't matter it the first place. But secondly
as Kate pointed
out these crashes become firstly
less likely but secondly
less damaging. Why? Firstly
because we think that to the extent that crashes are always likely to happen
they happen because
I don't know
resources run out
there's a war somewhere which means that the oil prices drop or barriers go up to international trade. The housing crash would probably happen on both sides of the house. Not because there wasn't regulating but because the people regulating
and Tex says
"Oh
but we defund the regulators." No. By having a massive global market
that means it's really important that the regulators do their job very well
they are way better funded than they were in the era of the Great Depression. The point is that sometimes you just can't predict these things. You can't always know and the financial crash was a good example of that just because of the sheer volume of data that was available. So
what this means is that inevitably when a crash happens under either side of the house
why is it better on our side of the house? Firstly
there is more diversity in what banks invest their things in. Because there are more products which means that an individual crash in an individual thing
doesn't cause a huge financial crash. Secondly
the risk is spread over many different and many different institutions which means that there is a smoothing out effect rather than an explicit domino effect. Thirdly
we get quicker recoveries. Why? Because in the 2008 financial crisis
people who might have been priced out of the market because they didn't have enough
you know
like collateral to deal with. Like
I don't know
lots of Irish companies were given huge amounts of money by the EU and the IMF because they weren't regulated out
which means that when that crash happened
we had a huge incentive to get the economy moving
but crucially we had the ability to do so. So
these risky loans are incredibly important.But next
specifically
our extension on why it's so important
the substantive stuff. No
thank you. Why money causes peace. In fact
I tell a lie. I will take Sofie.I mean
you can say the word straw-manning but it doesn't mean that I am actually doing it.  So
next
and again
judges look at your notes.  But I'll go onto it now. So
why money causes peace. Firstly
direct [INAUDIBLE [01:01:24] incentive. They say it's really bad that the U.S' debt has gone really high. We say it's great because most of that debt is held by China. It means crucially
there is very little incentive to engage in a
like direct conflict. Probably wouldn't be World War III
but
you know
the little nefarious proxy wars that we like to have. It's
the incentives for them to mess around on the South China Sea still exist
but now there's incentive to not escalate those tensions. Secondly
there is the incentive to not engage in costly trade wars because those are damaging for both sides. Whereas before the 30s and 40s
where an unending age of protectionism and tariffs as we tried to protect our own industries
now we have things like the EU
the Common Economic Zone
the TTP
rest in peace.  We get these things on our side of the house which liberate markets and we think are incredibly important. But particularly why is it that deregulation causes it. Because of interconnectedness. It's much easier for me to make a loan in another part of the world that I might not know under their side of the house
enough knowledge to say that this is definitely
definitely a safe bet. Crucially
when I give this money it is cyclical. It builds on itself because once I put some loans in this country
I have an invested interest in that country being stable. This worked both in the case of things like China but also smaller countries. As the Soviet Union fell
like have a huge incentive to start plowing money into Romania because now it's a market I can exploit. But crucially
I have an incentive for Romania to stay stable for the foreseeable future. Under their side of the house
the only way to get money out of these countries or the only way to get money out of Africa is to just deplete it of all the resources. And it doesn't matter what happens to the rest of the country
it doesn't matter what happens to everyone else
crucially
financial markets work on the economy being stable and that relies on trust. This level of trust means that I do care what happens in these countries regardless of where I am in the world because war and conflict is bad for business. So
ultimately
these loans that mapped out under their side of the house are actually really useful because
yes
in the West sometimes they lead to things like Facebook that we wouldn't have the ability to recognize [INAUDIBLE [01:03:12] but crucially
it means we just give loans to poor people in Nigeria because we can make money out of them. Under side of the house we make the global poor a market that we give money to
that lifts them out of poverty. Side with capitalism
side with closing Opp.
