1
I'm genuinely unclear what sort of Marxist fantasy line the economics department of Oxford University must look like. If they state the two years of recession that occurred from 2008 - 2012 to 2010
had harms that outweigh the benefit of the 40 years of continuous extended economic growth that occurred prior to that. I think additionally
they've been atrociously un-comparative in engaging with what the world looks like post-2008. Because
yes
they [INAUDIBLE [00:24:14] that takes place in the past but this also has effects for our economy going forward. And particularly post 08
as Bethany explains to you
banks
the type of risk that banks and other institutions are willing to engage in
has changed as they are taking better risks that are less likely to cause these types of collapse in future. So
even if they want to stand by financial crises outweighing the benefits of extended growth
they don't win on that comparative going forward. I'm gonna look at two things. One
the question of economic growth
why we get substantially more of it. Secondly
the question of risk
why we contest
there is less on our side of the house. Okay
first of all
let's deal with the first point they gave
which is that the economic games that happened from this were neither real nor important. And
and we're given a few mechanisms to this. First of all
that a lot of this is just unproductive speculation
in terms of your spending on the stock market or your investing it there or whatever. I would point out
like one just fact is they're actually quite a small amount of the loans that were made for the simple reason that only a small number of institutions are willing to engage in incredibly speculative stuff. Like the vast majority of investors into the stock markets are things like pension funds
are things like large businesses. That's where most of the money comes from. These people want stable long-term returns. So
all of this capital is just going to more return
to more
to more
to more loans for business. Secondly though
in terms
or secondly though
dealing with the type that is unproductive. One
you can tax this
right. Like we've got huge amounts of money coming in tax. So
they want to stand behind better healthcare
better education. It's easier to get this on our side
on our side of the house. Secondly though
as they told us
there's no separation of casino and real banking. So
casino banking was still happening to some extent on their side of the house. The problem was all the gains from that were locked up in the casino banks and could never be extended to the real economy. Post-Glass-Steagall
the gains that certain banks made from betting on the stock market
they could then use to give productive loans to businesses in China
to businesses in the far
to businesses in the Far East
to businesses in developing countries. But thirdly
even if the only effect of the stock markets is to drive the share prices
that's good for companies why? Because if your share prices are higher
you're
it's easier for you to borrow money and then invest that. Like this isn't just magical money that disappears. When you're investing in the stock market
that money is going to the companies because the share price is going up making those companies more valuable
making it easier for them to borrow
making it easier for them to spend money and generate economic activity
generate jobs. All the good stuff that Bethany brought you with no response. Secondly
that a lot of this brings bubbles. But recognize
these bubbles are incredibly good for the people who hold the assets that are bubbling. When we talk about things like a massive spike in house prices
that was crucial to social mobility for people who
for poor families who had bought their homes in the 70s and 80s
who now saw their values rise
who suddenly
now had enough money to send their kids to college
to send their kids to university. Sure
there might have been a two-year gap from 2008
2010
where kids going to university then were hurt. But the
all the additional working-class kids who only had money to afford their college fees
because their parents were able to borrow against the value of their house for the 30 years prior to this
and for the however many centuries going forward that are going to happen post 2008
clearly massively outweighs  these kids from just the two years. No
thank you. But thirdly
the to
yeah
and yeah. So
and this also deals with the third thing
that the legitimate loans were then withdrawn in 2008. I mean sure
that's obviously a harm for people who suffered from this. But we just think there's comparatively less people being harmed in these past
span of two years than there is in a span
or who are benefiting in span of 10
20 or 30. Secondly then
on the contention that the gains from this economic activity all went to the wrong people. I'd point out
this is atrociously non-comparative. Why? Because on their side of the house
the rich are always able to gain money with a smaller financial sector where you can only invest in the less risky prospects. A less risky business is one that has a very rich founder backing it
as opposed to some kid who just has a good idea and not much capital to his name. But like
let's take them on their best and engage the examples they're are talking about. They're giving the examples that all of these look like loans to go to college or house prices to families who otherwise would not have been able to afford a house. This is clearly a massive consequential benefit insofar as this is poor kids who can never have gone to college
families who could never have afforded a house and got any capital or any money for [INAUDIBLE [00:27:45] children
any money to create social mobility. Um
but se
but secondly
they tell us well
but when there's a crash
the rich are bailed out
so they don't lose. But
no
no
no. Recognize
the investors
one
do lose a lot
right. Like it was only structurally important banks that were bailed out. The hedge funds didn't
they went to the wall
people lost their jobs
people lost their jobs. But secondly
this doesn't
but secondly
again engaged with the comparative
and a comparative of slower growth. What is happening?Like
like
like a business that like
riskier businesses looks like stuff like when there's a wobble in demand for cars
it's too risky to extend loans to that car company. If there's a sudden drop in the price of food
it's too risky to give money to a farmer to allow them to keep their heads above the water and put foods above
and put foods up on the table. All the hits in the real economy that they're talking about
affect the calculus of risk. So
you're only allowed to lend to less risky investors. And on their side of the house
you're not landing to prop up loans
to prop up business and families that could have been saved were it not for the fact that regulation was too strict.I dispute that these people don't matter and that their gains don't matter. So
recognize
let's engage with the stuff in the developing world. Because I think we can just win the debate on this alone in terms of access to finance. Post the eras of colonization
um
it's an unfortunate truth that vast reserves of capital where extracted from the developing world to go to the West. This just meant that in a lot of the poor countries they want to talk about
the capital did not exist for them to invest.No. And secondly though
if the economies of the West were still built on trade
if they were still built on manufacturing or the real economy
all the structural incentives of these governments are then to shut poorer countries out of global markets. Why? Because if you're a Briton and your economy is based on steel
you want to shut out other nations that could compete you
with your own steel. However
if your economy is based on finance
you want to encourage investment in these countries because that's where you can get higher rates of return because there's less investment there
more rates of return on capital. Crucially
regulation prevented investment in these countries. Because one
they were perceived as higher risk. Countries abroad
we knew less about them
they were developing economies etc. But two
restrictions on things like currency convertibility. How many pounds you could buy and sell
things like fixed exchange rates specifically prevented all these things from happening.So
look
they're correct that the Asian Tigers didn't specialize in financial development. But the question is the development they did specialize in
where did the capital for that come from? It came from financial markets in the West
 it came from the activity that they label unproductive in stock markets. So
even if they went otherwise
even if they still prove that some have been disastrous for the global economy
I think the duty and the care that we owe to some of the most vulnerable people in this world outweigh that. Closing.Yeah
but lots of them don't. That's the point.  Like even though some of them do
do this
the vast majority of people weren’t repossessed. Yes
they repossessed a million homes in America
that's still another 100 million people who kept their homes. Yes
a few kids weren't able to go to college
that's still lots more who were still able to go to
who were still able to go to college. So
lastly then
on the contention that this made it too complex so there's
there's more risk. I point out again
it's not about the amount of risk
it's about the quality of risk. Like there's lots of stuff that I've talked about here like keeping a business where there's been a sort of fall in demand for its products
like keeping a poor farmer's head above water
are perceived as high risk and wouldn't be permitted on their side of the house. But
right now
is we think bankers are in the best place to know what this risk is. First of all
post-2008
they're much more aware of the problems of the complexity and derivatives they talk about. So
insofar as 2008 was a harm we had had to eat
pretty sure that the [INAUDIBLE [00:30:46] system would take risks better going forward
we're happy for that. Secondly
the populist anger they talk about. Again
bankers are concerned about this. They know if there's a rerun of 2008
lots of them are going to be
lots of them are going to go to jail. They behave better and take less risks. But lastly
moral hazard and regulatory capture as Bethany explained
works on our side of the house
when chaebols are having regular meetings with the South Korean government to determine their structures. There is no engagement with the comparative. They're just pointing out. Sure
it happens to some extent on both sides of the house. We contest it is worse in a more highly regulated system. I think this is
I think deregulation in the past 40 years is global economic growth we're going to stand behind. Opposed.
I'm genuinely unclear what sort of Marxist fantasy line the economics department of Oxford University must look like. If they state the two years of recession that occurred from 2008 - 2012 to 2010, had harms that outweigh the benefit of the 40 years of continuous extended economic growth that occurred prior to that. I think additionally, they've been atrociously un-comparative in engaging with what the world looks like post-2008. Because, yes, they [INAUDIBLE [00:24:14] that takes place in the past but this also has effects for our economy going forward. And particularly post 08, as Bethany explains to you, banks, the type of risk that banks and other institutions are willing to engage in, has changed as they are taking better risks that are less likely to cause these types of collapse in future. So, even if they want to stand by financial crises outweighing the benefits of extended growth, they don't win on that comparative going forward. I'm gonna look at two things. One, the question of economic growth, why we get substantially more of it. Secondly, the question of risk, why we contest, there is less on our side of the house. Okay, first of all, let's deal with the first point they gave, which is that the economic games that happened from this were neither real nor important. And, and we're given a few mechanisms to this. First of all, that a lot of this is just unproductive speculation, in terms of your spending on the stock market or your investing it there or whatever. I would point out, like one just fact is they're actually quite a small amount of the loans that were made for the simple reason that only a small number of institutions are willing to engage in incredibly speculative stuff. Like the vast majority of investors into the stock markets are things like pension funds, are things like large businesses. That's where most of the money comes from. These people want stable long-term returns. So, all of this capital is just going to more return, to more, to more, to more loans for business. Secondly though, in terms, or secondly though, dealing with the type that is unproductive. One, you can tax this, right. Like we've got huge amounts of money coming in tax. So, they want to stand behind better healthcare, better education. It's easier to get this on our side, on our side of the house. Secondly though, as they told us, there's no separation of casino and real banking. So, casino banking was still happening to some extent on their side of the house. The problem was all the gains from that were locked up in the casino banks and could never be extended to the real economy. Post-Glass-Steagall, the gains that certain banks made from betting on the stock market, they could then use to give productive loans to businesses in China, to businesses in the far, to businesses in the Far East, to businesses in developing countries. But thirdly, even if the only effect of the stock markets is to drive the share prices, that's good for companies why? Because if your share prices are higher, you're, it's easier for you to borrow money and then invest that. Like this isn't just magical money that disappears. When you're investing in the stock market, that money is going to the companies because the share price is going up making those companies more valuable, making it easier for them to borrow, making it easier for them to spend money and generate economic activity, generate jobs. All the good stuff that Bethany brought you with no response. Secondly, that a lot of this brings bubbles. But recognize, these bubbles are incredibly good for the people who hold the assets that are bubbling. When we talk about things like a massive spike in house prices, that was crucial to social mobility for people who, for poor families who had bought their homes in the 70s and 80s, who now saw their values rise, who suddenly, now had enough money to send their kids to college, to send their kids to university. Sure, there might have been a two-year gap from 2008, 2010, where kids going to university then were hurt. But the, all the additional working-class kids who only had money to afford their college fees, because their parents were able to borrow against the value of their house for the 30 years prior to this, and for the however many centuries going forward that are going to happen post 2008, clearly massively outweighs  these kids from just the two years. No, thank you. But thirdly, the to, yeah, and yeah. So, and this also deals with the third thing, that the legitimate loans were then withdrawn in 2008. I mean sure, that's obviously a harm for people who suffered from this. But we just think there's comparatively less people being harmed in these past, span of two years than there is in a span, or who are benefiting in span of 10, 20 or 30. Secondly then, on the contention that the gains from this economic activity all went to the wrong people. I'd point out, this is atrociously non-comparative. Why? Because on their side of the house, the rich are always able to gain money with a smaller financial sector where you can only invest in the less risky prospects. A less risky business is one that has a very rich founder backing it, as opposed to some kid who just has a good idea and not much capital to his name. But like, let's take them on their best and engage the examples they're are talking about. They're giving the examples that all of these look like loans to go to college or house prices to families who otherwise would not have been able to afford a house. This is clearly a massive consequential benefit insofar as this is poor kids who can never have gone to college, families who could never have afforded a house and got any capital or any money for [INAUDIBLE [00:27:45] children, any money to create social mobility. Um, but se, but secondly, they tell us well, but when there's a crash, the rich are bailed out, so they don't lose. But, no, no, no. Recognize, the investors, one, do lose a lot, right. Like it was only structurally important banks that were bailed out. The hedge funds didn't, they went to the wall, people lost their jobs, people lost their jobs. But secondly, this doesn't, but secondly, again engaged with the comparative, and a comparative of slower growth. What is happening?Like, like, like a business that like, riskier businesses looks like stuff like when there's a wobble in demand for cars, it's too risky to extend loans to that car company. If there's a sudden drop in the price of food, it's too risky to give money to a farmer to allow them to keep their heads above the water and put foods above, and put foods up on the table. All the hits in the real economy that they're talking about, affect the calculus of risk. So, you're only allowed to lend to less risky investors. And on their side of the house, you're not landing to prop up loans, to prop up business and families that could have been saved were it not for the fact that regulation was too strict.I dispute that these people don't matter and that their gains don't matter. So, recognize, let's engage with the stuff in the developing world. Because I think we can just win the debate on this alone in terms of access to finance. Post the eras of colonization, um, it's an unfortunate truth that vast reserves of capital where extracted from the developing world to go to the West. This just meant that in a lot of the poor countries they want to talk about, the capital did not exist for them to invest.No. And secondly though, if the economies of the West were still built on trade, if they were still built on manufacturing or the real economy, all the structural incentives of these governments are then to shut poorer countries out of global markets. Why? Because if you're a Briton and your economy is based on steel, you want to shut out other nations that could compete you, with your own steel. However, if your economy is based on finance, you want to encourage investment in these countries because that's where you can get higher rates of return because there's less investment there, more rates of return on capital. Crucially, regulation prevented investment in these countries. Because one, they were perceived as higher risk. Countries abroad, we knew less about them, they were developing economies etc. But two, restrictions on things like currency convertibility. How many pounds you could buy and sell, things like fixed exchange rates specifically prevented all these things from happening.So, look, they're correct that the Asian Tigers didn't specialize in financial development. But the question is the development they did specialize in, where did the capital for that come from? It came from financial markets in the West,  it came from the activity that they label unproductive in stock markets. So, even if they went otherwise, even if they still prove that some have been disastrous for the global economy, I think the duty and the care that we owe to some of the most vulnerable people in this world outweigh that. Closing.Yeah, but lots of them don't. That's the point.  Like even though some of them do, do this, the vast majority of people weren’t repossessed. Yes, they repossessed a million homes in America, that's still another 100 million people who kept their homes. Yes, a few kids weren't able to go to college, that's still lots more who were still able to go to, who were still able to go to college. So, lastly then, on the contention that this made it too complex so there's, there's more risk. I point out again, it's not about the amount of risk, it's about the quality of risk. Like there's lots of stuff that I've talked about here like keeping a business where there's been a sort of fall in demand for its products, like keeping a poor farmer's head above water, are perceived as high risk and wouldn't be permitted on their side of the house. But, right now, is we think bankers are in the best place to know what this risk is. First of all, post-2008, they're much more aware of the problems of the complexity and derivatives they talk about. So, insofar as 2008 was a harm we had had to eat, pretty sure that the [INAUDIBLE [00:30:46] system would take risks better going forward, we're happy for that. Secondly, the populist anger they talk about. Again, bankers are concerned about this. They know if there's a rerun of 2008, lots of them are going to be, lots of them are going to go to jail. They behave better and take less risks. But lastly, moral hazard and regulatory capture as Bethany explained, works on our side of the house, when chaebols are having regular meetings with the South Korean government to determine their structures. There is no engagement with the comparative. They're just pointing out. Sure, it happens to some extent on both sides of the house. We contest it is worse in a more highly regulated system. I think this is, I think deregulation in the past 40 years is global economic growth we're going to stand behind. Opposed.